OMINOUS, THREATENING MUSIC. The upper tail fin of a jet
plane emerges through the cloud layer and PASSES THROUGH the
FRAME like a shark's fin through water. It passes by again
in the opposite direction. MUSIC BUILDS as the fin comes
straight TOWARD the CAMERA, MUSIC SWELLS to CRE
entire jet plane lifts out of clouds and passes overhead.
TITLE SLASHES ACROSS 

Airport bus arrives. Stewardess ELAINE DICKINSON steps off.
CAMERA FOLLOWS Elaine as she walks to terminal building.

  The white zone is for immediate loading
  and unloading of passengers only. There is
  no stopping in the red zone.

  The red zone is for immediate loading and
  unloading of passengers. There is no
  stopping in the white zone.

  No. The white zone is for loading and
  unloading, and there is no stopping in the
  red zone.

  The red zone has always been for loading
  and unloading, and there is never stopping
  in a white zone.

   
  and which zone is for loading.

  Listen, Betty. Don't start up with your
  white zone shit again!

Elaine enters terminal building.


Elaine is approached by a religious ZEALOT #1.

  Hello, we'd like you to have this flower
  from the Religious Consciousness Church.

  No, but thank you very much.


She checks her watch and walks past Security Check area.
CAMERA STAYS with a middle-aged couple, SHIRLEY and JACK,
waiting to pass through Security Check. Behind them is sign
reading: WARNING, HIJACKING IS A FEDERAL OFFENSE, etc.

  Jack, isn't that Fred Bliffert over there
  in the blue turtleneck? Maybe he's on our
  flight to Chicago.

  Yeah, I think he is.
  Hey, Fred!

  Hi, Jack!!!

A swarm of police and airport security men descend on Fred
and take him away.


A limousine arrives. Two colorfully dressed BLACK DUDES
emerge. An extra pesters them. Two HARE KRISHNA'S arrive on
foot and walk toward terminal.

  There's just no stopping in the white
  zone.

  Christ, you're as bad as your mother!

  Oh, really, Vernon! Why pretend? We both
  know perfectly well what it is you're
  talking about. You want me to have an
  abortion.

  It's really the only sensible thing to do.
  If it's done properly, therapeutically,
  there's no danger involved.

  Have you considered that what's inside me
  is a human being; that it's alive. We made
  love. It's us -- you and me.

  That isn't true. A fetus at this stage is
  not a human being, nor is it a person.

Krishnas enter terminal building.


The Krishnas are approached by the Religious Zealot.

  Hello, we'd like you to have this flower
  from the Church of Consciousness. Would
  you like to make a donation?

  No, we gave at the office.

A voluptuous BLONDE saunters through the airport, clears her
throat loudly, and spits on the wall.

She walks past an ELDERLY WOMAN standing outside a men's
room door. She turns and sticks her head in the door.



SECURITY CHECK LADY is watching X-ray scanner. First picture
is typically filled suitcase, then another, then a chest X-
ray.

A man passes through metal detector archway and it BEEPS.

  Please put your metal objects on this
  tray.

He puts his watch, keys on the tray. Then removes his metal
arm and metal leg.


MR. and MRS. HAMMEN and their eight year old son, JOEY,
arrive in a station wagon. They unload luggage.

  The red zone is for immediate loading and
  unloading of passengers only. There is no
  stopping in the white zone.



  The red zone is for...Betty, put down that
  gun!

  The white zone is for immediate loading
  and unloading of passengers only. There is
  no stopping in the red zone.

The Hammens walk toward terminal past a BUSINESSMAN.

  Taxi!

A taxi cab skids to a stop in front of him. The Businessman
gets in as the driver, TED STRIKER, drops the flag and
rushes out.

  Back in a minute.

Striker enters, looking around as if searching for someone.
People are rolling down the conveyor belt of a baggage
carousel, banging into each other like luggage. The luggage
is standing around the conveyor belt, waiting for the people
to come off.

Striker, walking briskly, is approached by Zealot #3 who
tries to pin a flower on his jacket. Striker keeps walking
but the Zealot is persistent. Finally, Striker slips out of
his jacket leaving the Zealot with the coat.

  Your attention, please. Flight seven-
  thirty-three from Milwaukee is now
  arriving on the B Concourse, Gate thirty-
  five.


Flight 733 taxis toward gate. A GROUND CREWMAN with red
flashlights is directing plane to his right. A SECOND
GROUND CREWMAN approaches as First Ground Crewman continues
to direct plane to his right.

  Hey, Joe, where's the forklift?

  The forklift? It's over there by the
  baggage loader.

He points to the left with his flashlights. Flight 733
follows flashlights and CRASHES into terminal.


Nose of Flight 733 CRASHES into terminal, scattering waiting
crowd. A woman tosses away her infant child as she runs off.


Striker catches up to Elaine.

  Elaine!

  Ted!

  I came home early and found your note. I
  guess you meant for me to read it later.
  Elaine, I've got to talk to you.

  I just don't want to go over it any more.

  I know things haven't been right for a
  long time, but it'll be different. If
  you'll just be patient, I can work things
  out.

  I have been patient and I've tried to
  help, but you wouldn't even let me do
  that.

   
  more?

  It takes so many things to make love last.
  Most of all it takes respect. And I can't
  live with a man I don't respect!

She leaves.

  What a pisser.


CAPTAIN CLARENCE OVEUR is standing at the magazine racks.
The first two sections of the display are books; the third
is girly magazines. The captions over the dis­play are
FICTION, NON-FICTION, WHACKING MATERIAL. He selects a
magazine entitled "Modern Sperm" and begins to page through.

  Captain Clarence Oveur, white courtesy
  phone. Captain Clarence Oveur, white
  courtesy phone.

Captain Oveur approaches telephones and picks up a red
phone.

  No, the white phone.

Oveur picks up the white phone.

  This is Captain Oveur.

  One moment for your call from the Mayo
  Clinic.

  Captain Oveur, white courtesy phone.
  Captain Clarence Oveur...

  I've got it!

  All right. Thank you.

  Go ahead with your call.

  This is Doctor Turnansky at the Mayo
  Clinic.


DR. TURNANSKY is seated at desk. Behind him are shelves
filled with mayonnaise jars.

  There's a passenger on your Chicago flight
  two-oh-niner, a little girl named Lisa
   
  scheduled for a heart transplant and we'd
  like you to tell her mother that we found
  a donor an hour ago.

On his desk is a beaker containing a beating heart.

  We have the heart here ready for surgery
  and we must have the recipient on the
  operating table within six hours.

The heart jumps out of the beaker, across the desk and falls
off the edge.

  I want you to make sure she is kept in a
  reclined position and that a continuous
  watch is kept on her I.V.


  Also, it's important that...

  Excuse me. This is the Operator, Captain
  Oveur, I have an emergency call for you on
  line five trom a Mister Hamm.

  All right. Give me Hamm on five, hold the
  Mayo.


Ambulance arrives at airplane. Attendants and MRS. DAVIS
unload LISA DAVIS into wheelchair.


Elaine and Striker are walking together.

  Look, you'll be back in town tomorrow
  night. We'll have dinner -- talk it over.

  I won't be back. I've requested the
  Atlanta run.

  Elaine, not yet. I promise you I really
  can change.

  Then why don't you take the job that Louie
  Netz offered you at Boeing?

In the b.g. an airline PORTER is transporting an ELDERLY
COUPLE in an electric cart. They round the corner too fast
and the woman falls out. Husband doesn't notice.

  You know I haven't been able to get near
  an airplane since the war. And even if I
  could, they wouldn't hire me because of my
  war record.

  Your <u>war</u> <u>record</u>? You're the only one
  keeping that alive. For everyone else it's
  ancient history.

  You expect me to believe that?

In the b.g. the Elderly Woman staggers to her feet and is
immediately run over by another electric cart.

    
  It's the truth. What's hurt you the most
  is your record since the war. Different
  cities, different jobs, and not one of
  them shows you can accept any real
  responsibility.

   
  But if you'll just give me...

    
  It's too late, Ted. When I get back to
  Chicago, I'm going to start my life all
  over again. I'm sorry.

She walks off. Dramatic MUSIC as Striker glares with
determination. The religious Zealot tries to pin a flower on
his lapel.

    
  Hello, we'd like you to have this...

Without looking, Striker decks the Zealot with one punch. He
walks after Elaine.



Clarence Oveur is in the pilot's seat. VICTOR BASTA is
seated at engineer's console. There is a St. Christopher's
statue on the dashboard.

   
  Any word on that storm lifting over Salt
  Lake, Clarence?

TEXACO SERVICE MAN is cleaning windshield.

    
  Unlikely, Victor. I just reviewed the Area
  Report for 1609 hours through 2400 hours.
  That's an occluded front stalled over the
   

Texaco Service Man opens hood and checks dipstick.

   
  If it decides to push over into the Great
  Lakes it could get plenty soupy. How about
  the southern route, around Tulsa?

    
  I double checked the terminal forecast and
  winds aloft. IFR ceilings all the way.

Oveur gives charge card to Texaco Man.

   
  Where do they top out?

    
  Well, there's some light scattered cover
  at twenty thousand with icing around
  eighteen.

   
  Looks like the original flight plan over
   

Oveur signs charge form and gives it to Texaco Man.

    
   

ROGER MURDOCK enters. He is played by a famous athlete.

  Sorry, Clarence. Latest weather report
  shows everything socked in from Salt Lake
  to Lincoln.

    
  Hi, Roger. Good to have you aboard.
  Victor, this is Roger Murdock.

   
  How do you do, Roger?

Texaco Man hands receipt to Oveur.



Stewardesses Elaine and RANDY are greeting boarding
passengers including the Hammens and SISTER ANGELINA who is
carrying a guitar.



   
  you imagine blitzing on third and long
  with two minutes in the game?

  Well, hell, they couldn't stay in zone
  coverage with Dallas running swing
  patterns!



  What did you think of 'Great
  Expectations?'

  Well, it wasn't all that I had hoped.



A SOLDIER and GIRL are tearfully embracing at the base of
the stairs leading into the plane.

  Oh, Bill, I'm going to miss you so much.

  You promise you'll write.

  Every day.

  Better get on board, son.



Striker approaches check-in counter.

   
  Can you tell me if Elaine Dickinson is on
  this flight?

She looks at her list.

  Well, the whole flight crew has boarded.
  Yes. She is on board.

   
  I'd like one ticket to Chicago. No
  baggage!



The Businessman is patiently waiting in Striker's cab.



  Smoking or non-smoking?

   
  Smoking, please.

She hands him a smoldering ticket, and he walks out the
door.



Striker emerges and freezes in terror.


agonizing over war recollections. SUPERIMPOSE ROARING
fighter planes. SUPER FADES OUT. Striker musters his courage
and walks toward airplane.



  Shi',man, tha' honkey mo'fo' mess wi' my
  ol' lady, man I rap tha' dude upside his
  head, man.

  Yeah, man, he ain't never goin' come on
  layin' no pig rap off you, man.

SUBTITLES APPEAR ON 
SAY. HOWEVER, I THINK HE MAY BE MISLEADING YOU."



Randy is taking Striker's ticket.

  Fourteen-B. It's halfway down on your
  right.

   
  Thank you.

As Striker sits down he sees Elaine, who is unaware he is on
board.


Elaine is handing out pillows. We HEAR A DING.


   "NO SMOKING
EL NO A YOU SMOKO"

"FASTEN SEAT BELTS
      PUTANA DA SEATBELTZ"

He fastens his seat belt and looks nervously out the window.
The Elderly Woman next to him notices.

  Nervous?

   
  Yes.

  First time?

   
  No. I've been nervous lots of times. I
  used to be a pilot myself...during the
  war.



Elaine approaches Mrs. Davis and Lisa.

    
  We'll be taking off real soon so we better
  fasten you in tight.

  Thank you. Oh Mother, this is so exciting.

  I know, but remember you must get some
  rest.

    
  That's good advice. You relax and I'll be
  back after we take off.



MILTON, an eight year old boy wearing a conservative coat
and tie, fastens his seat belt and begins reading his
"Business Monthly" magazine.

He sees BERNICE, a seven year old girl, in the aisle and
looks her up and down.






Murdock and Oveur look toward left wing.

Murdock and Oveur look toward right wing.

Murdock and Oveur look toward left wing and do a double
take.

Murdock and Oveur are confused and counting on their
fingers.

Stairs are removed from airplane. The Soldier is in the open
doorway waving good-bye to his tearful girlfriend at the
base of the plane.



    
  Two-zero-niner to ground control. We are
  loaded and ready to taxi.



  Roger, two-zero-niner. You are third in
  line for takeoff...Air Israel, taxi into
  position.



An Air Israel airplane with beard and pais, wearing a
yarmulka and tallis.



  Air Poland, you are cleared for takeoff.



Crew is Jose Feliciano and look-alike for Ray Charles.



  Taxi to runway one-niner.



Oveur moves console levers as if shifting into first gear.



as 209 starts to taxi, the Soldier is leaning out the door.

  Good-bye, darling.



His girlfriend is moving along next to the plane as in
typical train station good-bye scene.

  Oh, good-bye, Bill! Have your picture
  taken as soon as you get there and send me
  one!

As she runs, she dodges posts. We HEAR the chug chug of a
steam engine pulling from a station.

  I will.

She runs through crowd of people standing on side of runway.

   

She's running faster.

   

He tosses her his watch.

  Oh, but it's your watch. You shouldn't.
  You'll need it.

She is now knocking down posts as she keeps up with the
accelerating plane.

  Good-bye, darling.

  Oh, Bill, I'll keep it. I'll keep it with
  me all the time.

  So long, darling. Good-bye. Take care of
  yourself.

  Bill! Bill! Good-bye, Bill.

  Good-bye, darling.

  Good-bye, darling. I love you. I love you,
  darling.

  Good-bye, darling.

A TRAIN WHISTLE sounds. She stops running and waves.



  Flight two-zero-niner, you are cleared for
  takeoff.

    
  Roger.

  Huh?

Oveur throws console lever into second gear.

  L.A. departure frequency two-point-niner.

    
  Roger.

  Huh?

   
  Request vector...over.

    
  What?

  Flight two-zero-niner, cleared for vector
  three...two four.

  We have clearance, Clarence.

    
  Roger, Roger. What's our vector, Victor?

Oveur throws console lever into third.



Flight 209 takes off, flying erratically.

   
  Tower radioed clearance, over.

    
  That's Clarence Oveur...over.

   
  Roger.

  Huh?

  Roger, over.

    
  What?!

  Huh?


going off.



Striker walks to rear of plane and looks out window. He
swallows a couple of pills. Randy approaches.

   

   
  Oh -- I haven't flown for a long time.



Elaine is handing out magazines.

    
  Good evening, this is Captain Oveur
  speaking. We'll be cruising at thirty-six,
  thousand feet, and arrival time in Chicago
  is ten-forty-five Central Time. The
  temperature there is sixty-two degrees,
  with a twenty percent chance of
  precipitation. And now here's Victor with
  People in the news.

   
  Thank you, Clarence. Ali McGraw announced
  another spin on the marriage-go-round. And
  who's the lucky guy? You guessed it. None
  other than Olympic gymnast...

Elaine approaches Mrs. Elderly. Striker's seat is vacant.

    
  Would you like something to read?

   

Elaine hands her a small piece of paper.

    
  How about this leaflet: 'Famous Jewish
  Sports Legends?'

  Yes. Thank you.

Elaine turns and is shocked to see Striker approaching his
seat.

    
  Ted, what are you doing here?

   
  Elaine, I've got to talk to you.

    
  You...you shouldn't have come. I don't
  have time now.

  Oh, stewardess...

    
  Excuse me.

Striker sits down.

  No wonder you're upset. She's lovely. And
  a darling figure. Supple, pouting breasts.
  Firm thighs. It's a shame you're not
  getting along.

   
  Yes, I know. Things used to be different.
  I remember when we first met. It was
  during the war.




Striker is seated at bar in a smoke-filled room. An
assortment of unsavory characters are hanging around the
bar.

   
  I was in the Air Force, stationed in
   
  hang out in the Magumba Bar.

Shapely female legs walking on bar stop in front of Striker.
SLEAZY TROMBONE MUSIC. CAMERA PANS UP shapely female in
tight fitting dress. She is play­ing the sleazy trombone
music.

   
  It was a rough place. You would count on a
  fight breaking out almost every night.

Two GIRL 
breaking tables and chairs.



An unsavory CHARACTER puts a quarter in the jukebox. One
Girl Scout bashes the other against the jukebox buttons.


DI­box
again.


Girl Scout bashes again.


The unsavory Character nods approvingly at selections.



Patrons are dancing a la John Travolta.

   
  I didn't go there that night to fall in
  love, I just dropped in for a couple of
  drinks.


He turns to look toward dance floor.

   
  But suddenly there she was.


Elaine dancing with grizzly looking cutthroat.

   
  I was captivated, entranced.


   
  It hit me like a thunderbolt. I had to ask
  the guy next to me to pinch me to make
  sure I wasn't dreaming.

Striker asks the burly LONGSHOREMAN next to him to to pinch
him. Longshoreman gives him a look and moves away
cautiously.

   
  I was afraid to approach her, but that
  night, fate was on my side.

Elaine's dancing partner is stabbed in the back and falls to
the grould. No one notices but Striker who eagerly fills in.
They make a perfect disco couple. The other dancers make a
circle around them.

They begin with fancy disco steps, move on to flips and
seemingly impossible acrobatics, finally ending with
incredible stunts: Striker, jumping through flaming hoops
and Elaine, hanging from a chandelier by her teeth and
twirling.




Bar is closing, chairs on tables, bartender sweeping floor,
Elaine and Striker dancing slowly in center of room. One
final Girl Scout flies into FRAME and falls in a lifeless
heap at their feet.




   
  We laughed, we talked, we danced, I never
  wanted it to end and I guess I still
  don't. But enough about me. I hope this
  hasn't been boring for you.

CAMERA WIDENS to reveal Mrs. Elderly's legs dangling next to
him. She has hung herself.

   
  It's just that when I start to talk about
  Elaine, I get so carried away -- I lose
  all track of time -- not unlike Oliver in
  'Jesus: the Man.'



Milton, carrying a tray with two cups of coffee, approaches
Bernice.

  I happened to be passing, and I thought
  you might like some corfee.

  That's very nice of you. Thank you.

She takes a cup.

  Ah, won't you sit down?

  Thank you. Cream?

  No, thank you. I take it black. Like my
  men.

    
  Were you vacationing in Los Angeles?

    
  Well, it really wasn't a vacation. You
  see, I'm a teacher in the New York City
  school system, and I was attending a
  seminar on visual aids to education. Are
  you from L.A.?

    
  No. I'm from Washington, D.C. I'm a
  lobbyist for the Small Businessmen's
  Assocation.



Elaine is taking orders from a couple and their eight year
old son.

    
  Would you like to order dinner now?

   
  Yes. Steak for Joey and my wife and I will
  have the fish.

 
  When can I see the cockpit, Dad?

   
  Well, I think that the pilots are too busy
  flying the plane for that, Joey.

 
  Aw, gee whiz.

    
  I tell you what, Joey. I'll talk to the
  Captain and see what I can arrange.

 
  Gee! That'd be swell!

Elaine moves on to the two Black Dudes.

    
  Would you gentlemen care to order your
  dinners?

The Black Dudes point to their selections on the menu.

 
  'Ey ma' muh fuh wha' fo', shi!

SUBTITLES APPEAR: "I WOULD LIKE THE STEAK, PLEASE."

 
  Shi' mo cain ma foh mess wi' ain?!

SUBTITLES APPEAR: "I'LL HAVE THE FISH, THANK YOU."



Randy is taking dinner orders from Hari Krishnas.

   
  May I take your dinner order?

 
  No, thank you, we brought our own
  vegetables.

 
  But we would like some hot water for our
  tea, please.

Randy moves on.

 
   



Elaine is replacing a magazine and catches sight of Striker.

ELAINE'S POV - STRIKER

Boring another passenger.

BACK TO ELAINE 

She moves into the alcove and begins to pour coffee. CAMERA
MOVES INTO CLOSEUP of Elaine.

 



Striker and Elaine are running. She falls down at the
water's edge, exhausted. Striker drops to his knees and they
embrace passionately. A huge wave washes over them covering
them completely. When the wave recedes, they're still locked
in the same embrace. They are covered with seaweed. Fish are
flopping around in the sand.

    
  Oh, Ted, I never knew I could be so happy.
  These past few months have been wonderful.
  Tomorrow why don't we drive up the coast
  to that little seafood place and...

Striker frowns.

    
  What's the matter?

   
  My orders came through. My squadron ships
  out tomorrow. I'll be leading a very
  important mission.

    
  Oh, Ted, please be careful. I worry about
  you so much.

   
  I love you, Elaine.

    
  I love you.

They embrace. Another huge wave washes in and covers them
completely.

 



Elaine comes back to reality.



In level flight.



   GROUND CONTROL (v.o.)
  Flight two-zero-niner, this is Denver
  Flight Control. You're approaching some
  rough weather. Please climb to forty-two
  thousand feet.

    
  Roger, Denver.

There is a KNOCK on the cockpit door. Elaine and Joey enter.

    
  We have a visitor.

    
  Hello.

 
  Hi.

    
  This is Captain Oveur. Mister Murdock and
  Mister Johnson. This is Joey Hammen.

 
  Come on up here. You can see better.

    
  Joey, here's something we give our special
  visitors. Would you like to have it?

He gives Joey a small toy airplane and puts his arm around
him.

 
  Thank you. Thanks a lot!

    
  Have you ever been in a cockpit before?

 
  No, sir. I've never been up in a plane
  before.

    
  Have you ever seen a grown man naked?

 
   
  Clarence?

    
(looking at Joey)
  No, why don't you take care ot it?

    
  We'd better get back now.

    
  Joey can stay up here for a while if he'd
  like to.

 
  Could I?

    
  Okay, if you don't get in the way.

Elaine exits. Murdock picks up phone.

 
  Flight two-zero-niner to Denver radio.
  Climbing to cruise at forty-two thousand.
  Will report again over Lincoln. Over and
  out.

Joey has been paying very close attention to Murdock, and
suddenly recognizes him.

 
  Wait a minute. I know you. You're Kareem
  Abdul Jabbar. You play basketball for the
  Los Angeles Lakers!

 
  I'm sorry, son, but you must have me
  confused with someone else. My name is
  Roger Murdock. I'm the co-pilot.

He turns to Basta.

 
  Ah, Victor, why don't you get the
  coordinates on the altitude vector and
  find out the ratio of direct velocity over
  engine speed?

Victor is puzzled.

 
  You <u>are</u> Kareem. I've seen you play. My
   

 
  I think you should go back to your seat
  now, Joey. Right, Clarence?

    
  No, he's not bothering anyone. Let him
  stay up here.

 
  All right. But just remember, my name is
  Roger Murdock.

He points to his nametag.

 
  I'm an airline pilot.
(to Oveur)
  Ah, Clarence, according to my
  calculations, with this tailwind we ought
  to be able to make up an additional
  fifteen minutes over the Rockies.

 
  I think you're the greatest. But my Dad
  says you don't work hard enough on
  defense.

 
(into microphone)
   
  niner intersecting Victor Airway seven-
  niner-niner.

 
  ...and that lots of times you don't even
  run down court.

 
  We are turning left to a heading of zero-
  niner-niner.

 
  ...and that you don't really try, except
  during the playoffs.

 
  The hell I don't! I'm out there busting my
  buns every night.

Murdock realizes he has given himself away. He quickly looks
to see if Oveur is listening. Oveur is busy checking
instruments. Murdock grabs Joey by the collar and whispers
angrily.

 
  Listen, kid, I've been hearing that crap
  ever since I was at UCLA. Tell your old
  man to drag Unseld and Lanier up and down
  the court for forty-eight minutes.
(into mike)
  Ah...Denver Control, this is Flight two-
  zero-niner continuing on a heading two-
  niner-niner...niner, ah...niner...niner.



Elaine is seated next to Striker.

   
  Elaine, just hear me out. I know things
  haven't been right for a long time. But it
  will be different...like it was in the
  beginning. Remember?

    
  I remember everything. All I have are
  memories.

Soft MUSIC begins.

    
  Mostly I remember...the nights when we
  were together. I remember how you used to
  hold me...and how I used to sit on your
  face and wriggle...and then afterwards how
  we'd watch until the sun came up. When it
  did, it was almost like...like each new
  day was created...only for us.

   
  That's the way I've always wanted it to
  be, Elaine.

    
  But it won't be. Not as long as you insist
  on living in the past!

Elaine leaves, teary-eyed.

CLOSEUP - STRIKER

SUPERIMPOSE:



Fighter plane diving.


  You're too low, Ted! You're too low!

Fighter plane CRASHES.

 



Sign in front reads:

 U.S. ARMY PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL
      PENTATHOL AVAILABLE

      Master Charge, Visa, Carte Blanche

 



Striker is lying in bed painting a canvas. Elaine is seated
at bedside.

    
  You got a telegram from head­quarters
  today.

   
  Headquarters!? What is it?

    
  It's a big building where the generals
  meet. But that's not important right now.
  They've cleared you of any blame for what
  happened on that raid. Isn't that good
  news?

INSERT - STRIKER'S PAINTING

A surreal image of a soldier contorted like a pretzel
clutching a machine gun in one hand and a crying infant in
the other.

BACK TO HOSPITAL - DAY

   
  Is it? Because of my mistake six men
  didn't return from that raid.

    
  Seven. Lieutenant Zipp died this morning.
  Ted, Doctor Sandler says you'll be out in
  a week. Isn't that wonderful?

In the b.g., a doctor in a white lab coat is attending a
patient. When he turns around WE SEE he is wearing an STP
insignia on his back.

   
  I wish I could say the same for George
  Zipp.

    
  Be patient, Ted. No one expects you to get
  over this immediately.

Striker is despondent.


  Hey, Striker!



He is posing for Striker's painting, contorted like a
pretzel, holding a machine gun in one hand and crying baby
in the other.


  How about a break? I'm getting tired!

   
  All right. Take five.

McCobb untangles himself and walks off.



    
  I found a wonderful apartment for us. It's
  got a brick fireplace and a cute little
  bedroom with mirrors on the ceiling.
  And...

   CAPTAIN GELINE (o.s.)
  I'm off course. Red Leader!!! Look out!!

   
  That's Captain Geline. He thinks he's a
  pilot, still fighting the war.



Captain Geline agonizing and making bombing and machine gun
noises.



   LIEUTENANT HURWITZ (o.s.)
  Groan.

    
  What's his problem?

   
  That's Lieutennt Hurwitz. Severe shell
  shock. He thinks he's Ethel Merman.



Strapped to the bed is ETHEL MERMAN singing "EVERYTHING'S
COMING UP ROSES." She breaks loose from the straps for a
grand finale. Two attendants attempt to restrain her.

 



   
  Excuse me, sir. Would you like some coffee
  before we serve dinner?

   
  No. No thank you.

Randy moves on to the Hammens.

   
  Would either of you like another cup of
  coffee?

   
  I will, but Jim won't.

   
  Yes, I think I will have another cup of
  coffee.

CAMERA ZOOMS to CLOSEUP of Mrs. Hammen.

   
  Jim never has a second cup of coffee at
  home.



Randy approaches Sister Angelina. The guitar is on the seat
next to her.

   
  Excuse me, Sister?


  Yes?

   
  There's a little girl on board who's ill
  and...


  Oh yes, I saw. Poor child.

   
  Could I borrow your guitar? I thought I
  might be able to cheer her up.


  Of course.

Randy takes the guitar and walks down the aisle. The guitar
clonks people on the back of the head. Randy approaches
Lisa.

   
  Is it all right if I talk to your
  daughter?

   
  Oh, I think that would be nice.

   
(to Lisa, who is reading)
  Hi!

 
  Hi!

   
  I'm Randy.

 
  I'm Lisa. Oh, you have a guitar!

   
  I thought maybe you'd like to hear a song.

 
  Oh, I'd love to.

   
  Okay, this is one of my favorites.

Randy is sitting on the edge of the gurney as she strums
three opening chords.

   
(strumming and singing in
 ballad tempo)
  'I've traveled the banks of the River
  Jordan, to find where it flows to the
  sea.'

Stewardesses and passengers notice the singer and peer
around corners and over seat backs. A man's head peers
upside down from the TOP OF THE FRAME.

   
  'I looked in the eyes of the cold and the
  hungry and saw that I was looking at me.'

As singing continues, Shirley and Jack look at each other
with saccherine smiles, the Hammens do the same, then the
Krishnas, then the Black Dudes. Finally, everyone is smiling
sweetly at each other.



Murdock and Oveur smile sweetly at each other...



   
(singing and playing the
 guitar)
  'And I wanted to know if life had a
  purpose, and what it all means in the end.
  In the silence I listened to the voices
  inside me, and they told me again and
  again.'

Tempo Jumps to rock pace.

   
  'There is only one river. There is only
  one sea.'

Randy, in her growing enthusiasm, swings her guitar,
knocking the I.V. connection tube from Lisa's arm. The I.V.
squirts, and Lisa turns pale and hollow­cheeked. No one else
notices.

   
  'And it flows through you, and it flows
  through me. There is only one people, we
  are one and the same.'

Lisa manages to reconnect her I.V.

   
(still singing)
  'We are all one spirit, one name. We are
  the Father, we are the son.'

Randy again knocks I.V. from Lisa's arm with guitar as the
passengers start to get into the music.

   
  'In the Dawn of Creation. We are one.'

Mrs. Davis rushes to reconnect Lisa's I.V. Lisa doesn't
react. Mrs. Davis pounds Lisa's chest.

   
  'We are only one people, we are one and
  the same.'

As Lisa revives, Randy swings her guitar and clonks Mrs.
Davis on the head.

   
  'We are all one spirit on Earth, one
  name.'



   
  'We are the Father, we are the son, and in
  the Dawn of Creation we are one.'



Elaine enters with dinners.

    
  Hey, we've been waiting for you. A little
  bit late tonight.

    
  Who wants to be first?

 
  Go ahead, Clarence, I got it.

Oveur removes his headset, Elaine puts tray down.

    
  How's the weather?

 
  Not so good. We've got some heavy stuff
  ahead of us. It might get rough again
  unless we can climb on top. But our
  airspeed is holding steady at six hundred
  ten knots.

    
  That's great. By the way, Joey Hammen
  asked me if you would autograph this
  basketball.

Murdock autographs it reluctantly.



A JAPANESE GENERAL, dressed in World War II uniform, is now
seated next to Striker.

   
  After the war, I just wanted to get as far
  away from things as possible. So Elaine
  and I joined the Peace Corps. We were
  assigned to an isolated tribe, the
  Molombos.

 



Striker and Elaine are being escorted to the chief's hut by
two GUARDS. We hear Jungle Animal SOUNDS. The chief is
standing in front of his hut surrounded by several TRIBESMEN
who are making the jungle animal sounds.

   
  They had never seen Americans before.

When Striker and Elaine arrive, the CHIEF holds up his hands
and the sounds stop.

   
  At first, they didn't know what to think
  of us; but soon we gained their trust.

The Chief extends his right hand for conventional handshake.
Striker shows him power grip. When the Chief is pleased,
Striker gives him five. The Chief pauses then decks Striker.

   
  It really was a challenge during the year
  introducing them to our Western culture.

 



Elaine is having a Supperware party for native women.

    
  Also, Supperware products are ideal for
  storing leftovers to help stretch your
  food dollar. This two quart "Seals-M-Rite"
  container with a special "Close-M-Tite"
  lid keeps hotdog buns fresh for days and
  prevents sugared cereals from sticking.

She scoops a ladle of corn mush from a carved wooden bowl
into a Supperware container.

    
  Meat and dairy products are protected
  against unwanted refrigerator odors when
  sealed in this non-slip pastel colored
  "Freez-o-leer".

When she burps the lid, the Supperware makes a human burp
SOUND.



Striker nailing crude basketball rim and net to tree.

   
  You must understand that these people had
  been completely isolated from
  civilization.

Striker demonstrates a two-handed set shot to natives. He
misses.

   
  No one had ever outlined a physical
  fitness program for them and they had no
  athletic equipment.

Native examines basketball for first time. After two slow
dribbles, he gracefully feints lefts, then, dribbling
through his legs, sinks a two-hand, over-the-head, reverse
dunk shot.

   
  We also emphasized nutrition and taught
  them to watch their diets.

Another native hits a long jump shot.

   
  The exercise improved their physical
  fitness and condition.

One shot after another swishes through the basketball rim.

   
  My working with them seemed to reinforce
  our objectives of group cooperation and
  controlled-competitive activity.

Striker approaches Elaine who is standing on the sideline.
As they talk, the natives are passing the ball around and
shooting baskets Harlem Globetrotter fashion.

   
  I think they're getting the hang of it!
  When we re-enlist I'll teach them
  baseball!

    
  Ted, I don't want to stay here. It's time
  for us to go back home -- to the plans we
  made before the war.

   
  A lot of people made plans before the war.
  Like George Zipp.

Elaine walks away, dejectedly. CAMERA STAYS with Striker as
he pours Gator-Ade into a glass.

   
  I guess it was at that moment that I first
  realized Elaine had doubts about our
  relationship. And that as much as anything
  else led to my drinking problem.

Striker has a problem drinking. He raises his glass of
Gator-Ade, then suddenly pours it on his forehead.

 



   
  We did come back to the States. I tried a
  number of jobs...Well, I could go on for
  hours, but I'd probably start to bore you.

The Japanese General is kneeling on the seat committing Hari
Kari.

   
  You know, I really couldn't blame Elaine.
  She wanted a career. I was offered a job
  at Boeing but I couldn't bring myself to
  take it...



The businessman waiting in Striker's cab checks his watch.



THUNDER and lightning.



Shirley is ill and holding her stomach in pain.


  Oh, I can't stand it.

 
  What is it?

Elaine approaches.

    
  Yes?


  My, stomach. I haven't felt this awful
  since we saw that Lina Wertmuller film.

    
  I'll see if I can find some Dramamine.

Elaine exits.


  OOOOOO.



Elaine is on the phone.

    
  Captain, one of the women passengers is
  very sick.



Joey enters to retrieve basketball. Murdock is wearing
goggles. 

    
  Airsick?

    
  I think so, but I've never seen it so
  acute.

    
  Find out if there's a doctor on board, as
  quietly as you can.

Oveur hangs up phone.

    
  Joey, have you ever been in a Turkish
  prison?



   
(nauseous)
  Oooh, I shouldn't have had that second cup
  of coffee.

He grabs for motion sickness bag. CAMERA ZOOMS to CLOSEUP of
Mrs. Hammen.

   
  Jim never vomits at home.



THUNDER and lightning.



Elaine is speaking to couple.

    
  I'm sorry I had to wake you. I'm just
  looking for a doctor. There's nothing to
  worry about.

Middle-aged lady, MRS. YAFFE, having overheard this
conversation, beckons to Elaine.

   
  Stewardess, I think the man next to me is
  a doctor.

The MAN next to her is wearing a surgical cap with mask.
Hanging around his neck is a stethoscope. He's sleeping.

    
  Sir. Excuse me, sir. I'm sorry to have to
  wake you. Are you a doctor?

    
  That's right.

    
  We have some passengers who are very sick.
  Could you come and take a look at them?

    
  Yes. Yes, of course.

Rumack picks up bag and exits with Elaine.



Rumack and Elaine enter. Rumack stoops over to Shirley, and
surgical instrument is slapped into his hand from o.s. He
pokes her stomach with his hand.

    
  Pain there?

She winces and nods.

    
  May I see your tongue, please?

She sticks her tongue out. Rumack pulls on it until it is
obviously too long. He continues to pull, and the tongue
becomes multi-colored magician's scarves. Then he pulls out
a bouquet of flowers followed by a white dove.

    
  I'll be back in a minute.

Rumack takes Elaine aside.

    
  You'd better tell the Captain. We've got
  to land as soon as we can. This woman has
  to be gotten to a hospital.

    
  A hospital? What is it?

    
  It's a big building with patients. But
  that's not important right now. Tell the
  Captain I must speak to him.

    
  Certainly.





    
(into mike)
  Thank you, Omaha. Two-zero-niner out.
(to Basta)
  Victor, we're running into a heavy storm,
  can you...

Oveur turns to see Basta slumped over the console.

Dramatic MUSIC.

    
  Victor! Roger, take over!

Oveur lifts Basta onto ground.



THUNDER and lightning.



Murdock, flying the plane alone, wipes his brow and appears
ill.



    
  Captain, how soon can we land?

    
  I can't tell.

    
  You can tell <u>me</u>. I'm a doctor!

    
  No. I mean I'm just not sure.

    
  Can't you take a guess?

    
  Well...not for another two hours.

    
  You can't take a guess for another two
  hours?

    
  No, I mean we can't <u>land</u> for another two
  hours. Fog has closed down everything this
  side of the mountains. We've got to go
  through to Chicago!

Suddenly, the plane rocks violently. Rumack and Oveur lose
balance.



THUNDER and lightning -- plane is flying erratically.



Murdock, unconscious, is slumped over controls. Oveur and
Rumack burst into cockpit. Oveur gets into pilot's seat.
Elaine enters.

    
(excitedly)
  Get him out of there!

INSERT - ALTIMETER AND FLIGHT CONTROLS

Altitude is fluctuating.



Oveur struggles with controls. They extricate Murdock from
behind the wheel. He is wearing shorts, kneepads, and
basketball shoes.



climbing and diving.



Passengers are being tossed about. A woman, applying
lipstick, smears it over her face.

INSERT - LIGHTED SYMBOLS 

-- cigarette with line slashed through, and couple
copulating with line slashed through.



Randy loses her balance and shoves dinner into a passenger's
face.



struggling with controls, finally regains level flight.



THUNDER and lightning -- plane levels off.



The St. Christopher statue is holding a motion discomtort
bag to its mouth.

    
  What is it, Doctor? What's happening?

    
  I'm not sure. I haven't seen anything like
  this since the Lina Wertmuller Film
  Festival.

Rumack and Elaine are now standing face-to-face. Oveur, in
the f.g., is at controls.

    
  What was it we had for dinner tonight?

    
  Well, we had a choice. Steak or fish.

    
  Yes, yes, I remember. I had lasagna.

He points to Johnson.

    
  What did he have?

    
  He had fish.

Randy enters cockpit.

   
  We have two more sick people, and the rest
  of the passengers are worried.

    
  I'll take care of the passengers. Elaine,
  find out what the two sick people had for
  dinner.
(into 
  This is Captain Oveur speaking.



Passengers are listening to 

    
  It's been a little bumpy up here but we'll
  be past it in a few minutes.

Randy and Elaine drag Murodck and Basta down center aisle.

    
  A couple points of interest: we're just
  now passing over the Hoover Dam and later
  on, our course will take us just south of
  the Grand Canyon.



    
  Meanwhile, relax and enjoy the rest of
  your flight. Okay? Okay!

He hangs up phone and turns to Rumack.

    
  That should do it.



Absolute pandemonium. Passengers are yelling, screaming,
tearing their hair out, climbing about.



    
(into microphone)
  Chicago, this is flight two-zero-niner.
  We're in trouble.



CAMERA PULLS OUT to reveal DISPATCHER typing Oveur's
message.

    
  We've got to have all altitudes below us
  cleared and priority approach and landing
  in Chicago. Over.

    
  We read you. Stand by, two-zero-niner.

When he tries to remove paper from typewriter, it rips in
half.



THUNDER and lightning.



Randy approaches Hammens. Mr. Hammen is sick.

   
  Yes?

   
  Oh, Stewardess. My husband is very sick.
  Can you do something, please?

   
  Well, the doctor will be with you in just
  a moment. One thing: do you know what he
  had for dinner?

   
  Yes, of course. We both had fish. Why?

   
  Oh, it's nothing to be alarmed about.
  We'll get back to you very quickly.

She turns to walk toward CAMERA with horrified expression.



Elaine enters, turns to face Rumack. Oveur is at controls in
f.g.

    
   
  Randy says there are five more cases, and
  they ate fish, too.

    
  Let's see now. The co-pilot had fish. What
  did the navigator eat?

    
  He had fish, too.

Oveur is picking up on the conversation.

    
  All right, now we know what we're up
  against. Every passenger on this plane who
  ate fish for dinner will become violently
  ill within the next half hour.

Oveur looks down at his dinner tray and sees skeleton of the
fish he just ate.

    
  Just how serious is it, doctor?

    
  Extremely serious. It starts with a slight
  fever.

Oveur experiences what the doctor is describing.

    
  Then a dryness in the throat. As the virus
  penetrates the red blood cells the victim
  becomes dizzy and begins to experience a
  rash and itching. From there the poison
  works its way into the central nervous
  system causing severe muscle spasms,
  followed by the inevitable drooling. At
  this point, the entire digestive system is
  rendered useless, causing the complete
  collapse of the lower bowels, accompanied
  by uncontrollable flatulence...until
  finally the poor bastard is reduced to a
  quivering, wasted piece of jelly.

Oveur passes out and pitches forward onto the controls.
Rumack and Elaine lose balance as plane dives.



THUNDER and lightning as plane is diving.



Passengers are being tossed about. A woman, applying rouge,
smears it all over her face.



wiggling. CAMERA PANS UP to braless woman whose breasts are
wiggling.



As they finally untangle Oveur from the wheel, he gains
semi-consciousness.

    
(gasping)
  Turn...on...automatic pilot.

Oveur passes out.

    
  Uh, automatic pilot...automatic pilot?

INSERT - ELAINE'S POV - CONTROL PANEL - NIGHT

ELAINE

is frantically searching for automatic pilot button.

    
  There it is!

INSERT - SWITCH MARKED "AUTOMATIC PILOT"

Elaine's hand tenuously reaches for and turns switch to
"ON".



SOUND of rushing air as instantly inflatable balloon pilot
takes shape in seat with hands on wheel. His uniform and cap
are painted on, and he has an alert "leave the driving to
us" expression on his face. The plane immediately regains
level flight, and Elaine and Rumack sigh in relief.

    
  I'll get back to the passengers.

Rumack exits.

 
(over radio)
  Come in two-zero-niner. This is Chicago.
  Flight two-zero-niner, come in, please.

Elaine picks up mike while still standing.

    
  This is Elaine Dickinson. I'm the
  stewardess. Captain Oveur is passed out on
  the floor, and we've lost the co-pilot and
  navigator, too. We're in terrible trouble.
  Over.

    
  Groan!

 
  Elaine! Roger, Roger! I read you. This is
  Steve McCroskey at Chicago Air Control.

    
  Hi, Steve!

 
  Now listen carefully. Is the automatic
  pilot on? Over.

    
  Yes. Yes, it is. Over.

    
  Huh?

 
  Very good. Now, Elaine, where are you?
  Over.

    
  I'm standing over Oveur. Over.



 
(into mike)
  All right, Elaine. Just hold on. We'll be
  back to you in a minute.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal dispatch is a beehive of
activity. The Chief Dispatcher, STEVE McCROSKEY, is barking
orders to 

 
  Hold all takeoffs. I don't want another
  plane in the air. When the 508 reports,
  bring it straight in.

Air Controller #1 exits quickly. McCroskey picks up phone.

 
  Put out a general bulletin to suspend all
  meal service on flights out of Los
  Angeles.

He hangs up phone and talks to 

 
  Tell all dispatchers to remain at their
  posts. It's going to be a long night.

Air Controller #2 exits. McCroskey notices he is out of
coffee and turns to 

 
  And how about some coffee, Johnny?

    
  No thanks.



 
  I want the weather on every landing field
  on this side of the Rockies, no matter
  what the size.

Air Controller #3 exits. 

 
   

Air Controller #4 exits. 

 
  Any place where there's a chance to land
  this plane.

Air Controller #5 exits. SIAMESE TWINS enter.

 
  Stan, go upstairs to the tower and get a
  runway diagram. Terry, check down on the
  field for emergency equipment.

Siamese Twins leave. In the b.g. we see them trying to walk
in opposite directions. Air Controller #1 enters.

   
  Chief, there's fog down to the deck
  everywhere east of the Rockies. There's no
  possible place they can land. They'll have
  to come through to Chicago.

 
  Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit
  smoking.

He lights up a cigarette. McCroskey walks toward a table and
leans on his hands.

 
  I want the best available man on this. A
  man who knows this plane inside and out
  and won't crack under pressure.

    
  How about Sal Mineo?

 
  Get me Rex Kramer!



Lightning and THUNDER.



Elaine is in the pilot's seat and the inflated automatic
pilot is in co-pilot's seat.

 
  Now, Elaine, right next to the throttle is
  the air speed gauge. What speed does it
  indicate?

    
  Three hundred twenty miles per hour.

INSERT - 

BACK TO 

We see, but Elaine does not notice, the automatic pilot very
slowly beginning to deflate.

 
  Good. Now check your altitude. That's the
  dial just below and to the right of the
  air speed indicator.

    
  Thirty-five thousand feet.

INSERT - ALTIMATER

Altitude is dropping.

BACK TO 

    
  No, wait. Now it says thirty-four thousand
  feet. It's dropping! It's dropping fast!
  Why is it doing that?

By now the automatic pilot is really slumped over as it is
quite deflated. It is staring at her with a half smile.
Elaine notices it.

    
  Oh, my God! The automatic pilot! It's
  deflating!

 
  All right, Elaine, don't worry. We have an
  auxiliary inflation system. Just follow my
  instructions.

    
  Okay, but please hurry! We're dropping
  fast!



Passengers are being tossed about. Rumack is examining a
female patient.

    
  What the hell's going on up there?

Rumack starts toward cockpit.



 
  Now, Elaine, don't panic. On the belt line
  of the automatie pilot there is a hollow
  tube. Can you see that?

    
  Yes. Yes, I can see it.

 
  Good. Now that's the manual inflation
  nozzle. Pull it out and blow it up like a
  balloon.

Elaine kneels over automatic pilot's crotch, puts tube in
her mouth and blows. Automatic pilot inflates. Rumack bursts
into cockpit.

RUMACK'S POV

Back of automatic pilot with Elaine kneeling over its
crotch.



Rumack slams the door in disbelief.

CLOSEUP - AUTOMATIC PILOT

with a big smile on its face.



Passengers are relieved as plane regains level flight.



Elaine and automatic pilot are relaxed in their seats. Both
are smoking cigarettes.



THUNDER and lightning.



Rumack enters.

    
  Elaine, you're a member of this crew. Can
  you face some unpleasant facts?

    
  No.

    
  All right. Unless I can get all these
  people to a hospital quickly, I can't even
  be sure of saving their lives. Now, is
  there anyone else on board who can land
  this plane?

    
  Well...



Striker, struggling with drinking problem, pours drink
between his cheek and ear.



    
  No. No one that I know of.

    
  I think you ought to know what our chances
  are. The life of everyone on board depends
  on just one thing: finding someone back
  there who not only can fly this plane, but
  who didn't have fish for dinner.

CAMERA ZOOMS into CLOSEUP of Elaine's face as she realizes
the severity of the situation.



THUNDER and lightning.



Passengers are listening to 

    
  Ladies and gentlemen, this is your
  stewardess speaking. We regret any
  inconvenience the sudden cabin movement
  might have caused.

Randy drags unconscious pilot, Oveur, down center aisle.

    
  This is due to periodic air pockets we
  encounter. There is no reason to become
  alarmed, and we hope you enjoy the rest of
  your flight. By the way, is there anyone
  on ­board who knows how to fly a plane?

Absolute pandemonium. Passengers are yelling, screaming,
tearing their hair out and climbing around. A naked woman
runs down the aisle. Sister Mary is choking a Krishna. Two
passengers are dueling with swords. A Spanish-speaking lady
waits for her husband to translate the announcement, then
panics.



SOUND of car screeching to a stop. PAUL CAREY, twenty-four
year-old, cleancut, naive-looking, navigator trainee enters
and pushes doorbell. We HEAR the typical eight-note chime
progression. The CHIMES then play the Air Force Fight song.
A dog BARKS and MRS. KRAMER opens the door.

 
  Hello, I'm Paul Carey from the airline.
  I'm here to pick up Captain Kramer.

   
  Oh, yes. Come in, Paul. Rex will be right
  out.



When Carey enters, a big dog jumps on him with its paws on
his chest.

   
  Shep, sit...sit! So, I understand you've
  got a real emergency down there.

 
(holding off dog)
  Well, to tell the truth, they really
  didn't fill me in on many of the details.
  Just told me to pick up Captain Kramer.

   
  Something about a plane with no pilot?

Carey begins to lose battle with the dog, while trying to
remain polite.

 
  Yeah, something like that, but as I say,
  they didn't have time to tell me very
  much.

   
  Shep, no! I'll bet you have exciting
  things happen all the time down there.

Shep is growling and Carey's arm is locked firmly in his
Jaws.

 
  Well...the airline business...does have...
  its moments...

Shep pins Carey against the wall, ripping his sleeve.

 
  ...but after...awhile...you begin to...
(gasp)
  ...get used to it.

   
  Shep, no! He gets so excited when new
  people are here.

We hear a THUD and loud growling.

   
  Are you a pilot yourself?

Carey is on the floor desperately fighting off the dog,
which is on top of him.

 
  I'm...in a...argh...navigator training
  program.

KRAMER enters, buttoning his coat.

     
  It's unbelievable! How many times have I
  warned those people about food inspection?

Kramer is tying his tie in the mirror. In the corner of the
mirror, Carey is being thrashed by the dog.

     
  The airport management, the F.A.A., and
  the airlines, they're all cheats and
  liars! All right, let's get out of here.



THUNDER and lightning.



Randy is talking to Krishnas.

   
  Sorry to bother you. We were just looking
  for someone with flying experience.

Randy exits. They return to reading their PLAYRAMA magazine
with a female Hari Krishna in a sexy pose on the cover.

 
  Hari Rama?

 
  Rama Rama.



Striker is sitting next to a MAN FROM INDIA in a business
suit and turban.

   
  You see, the day we left the village it
  was raining, so we had to take a special
  jeep to the main road...

The Indian is dousing himself with a can of gasoline. In
b.g. Randy is talking to passengers.

   
  In fact, we were lucky to even get a jeep
  since just the day before the only one we
  had broke down -- it had a bad axle...

The Indian lights a match to immolate himself. Randy
approaches.

   
  Excuse me, sir. There's been a little
  problem in the cockpit and I was
  wondering...

   
  The cockpit? What is it?

   
  It's the little room at the front of the
  plane where the pilots sit. But that's not
  important right now. The first officer is
  ill and the Captain would like someone
  with flying experience to help him with
  the radio. Do you know anything about
  planes?

The Indian holds the match, awaiting the outcome.

   
  Well, I flew in the war, but that was a
  long time ago. I wouldn't know anything
  about it.

   
  Would you go up, please?

He has a moment of indecision. The Indian encourages Striker
with an adamant nod. Striker gets up to leave. The Indian,
relieved, blows out the match.



Jack is sitting across the aisle from a 65-year-old
con­servatively dressed SPINSTER. He pulls a flask from his
coat pocket and takes a swig. She eyes him dis­approvingly.

 
  Would ya like a little whiskey, ma'am?


(insulted)
  Certainly not.

She inserts a two inch straw in her nose and snorts a couple
lines of cocaine off a piece of glass.



Striker enters.

   
(to Rumack and Randy)
  The stewardess said...

STRIKER'S POV

Empty pilot's seat and inflated automatic pilot.

   
  Both pilots!

    
  Can you fly this airplane and land it?

   
  Surely you can't be serious.

    
  I <u>am</u> serious, and don't call me Shirley!
  What flying experience have you had?

   
  Well, I flew single-engine fighters in the
  Air Force, but this plane has four
  engines. It's an entirely different kind
  of flying...<u>all</u> <u>together</u>!!!

   
(all together)
  It's an entirely different kind of flying.

   
  Besides, I haven't touched any ­kind of
  plane in six years.

    
  Mister Striker. I know nothing about
  flying. All I know is this: you're the
  only person on this plane who can possibly
  fly it. You're the only chance we've got.

DRAMATIC MUSIC as Striker turns to face the controls.

STRIKER'S POV

CAMERA PANS controls. CAMERA KEEPS PANNING and PANNING as WE
SEE more and more controls ad absurdum.



INSERT METER - $ll5.25. The businessman in Striker's cab
checks his watch.



 
 (to Air Controller)
  Tell Omaha to acknowledge and standby.
 (into phone)
  Get every piece of emergency equipment you
  can reach.
(to Air Controller)
  Alert at every mile of the way from here
  to the mountains.

Hinshaw grabs Air Controller #1's tummy.

    
  Would anyone care for a <u>roll</u> and coffee?

Phone RINGS.

   
  Chief?

 
  We'll need a pre-landing flight check.
  Tell 'em I'm in the dispatch office and I
  want it here fast.

   
  It's your wife.

 
 (into phone)
  I want the kids in bed by nine. I want the
  dog fed, the yard watered, and the gate
  locked. And get a note to the milkman --
  no more cheese!

He slams dowm the phone. He leans his hands on the desk.

 
  Where the hell is Kramer?

On the wall behind him there is a picture of McCroskey
leaning his hands on a desk.



Kramer and a mutilated Carey are en route to airport. Kramer
is at the wheel. Through rear window is obvious REAR
PROJECTION of passing road.

     
(into phone)
  No, we can't do that; the risk of a
  flameout is too great. Keep him 24,000.
  No, <u>feet</u>!

He hangs up phone.

     
  One of the passengers is going to land
  that plane.

 
  Is that possible?

     
  Possible, but it's a hundred to one shot.
  Thousand to one. I know this guy.

 
  You do? Who is it?

We hear A THUNK. REAR PROJECTION shows he has run oyer a
bicyclist, who stands and gives the finger.

     
  His name is Ted Striker. I flew with him
  during the war. And that won't make my job
  any easier tonight.

REAR PROJECTION SPEEDS UP to obvious FAST MOTION.

     
  Ted Striker was a crack flight leader up
  to a point. But he was one of those men
  who, well, let's just say he felt too much
  inside. Maybe you know the kind.

Now REAR PROJECTION indicates car is turning and then
weaving, but Kramer does not move wheel.

     
  It takes a certain type to perform under
  pressure. Striker didn't have it.

By now REAR PROJECTION is cowboys and Indians on horseback
chasing and shooting at Kramer's car.

     
  Ate his heart out over every name on the
  casualty lists. The upshot of it is that
  he went all to pieces on one particular
  mission. Let's just hope it doesn't happen
  again tonight.



THUNDER and lightning.



Striker is in pilot's seat. Rumack is standing behind him.

   
  Let's see, altitude twenty-four thousand
  feet, level flight, air speed four hundred
  sixty knots, course zero niner zero, trim,
  mixture, landing gear, balance.

Elaine enters.

    
  Ted! What are you doing? You can't fly
  this plane!

   
  That's what I've been trying to tell these
  people.

    
  Elaine, I haven't time to put this gently,
  so I'll be very direct. Everyone of us on
  this plane is in a desperate situation.
  Mister Striker is the only hope we've got.

   
  Let's see. Those are the flaps, that's the
  thrust, this must turn on the landing
  lights.

He flips a switch. The plane dives.



The plane is diving.



Jack is standing at toilet. He is jolted back and forth
against the walls.

INSERT - SIGN

flashing:RETURN TO SEAT
 GOBACKEN SIDONNA



   
(into mike)
  Mayday!



   
  Mayday! Mayday!

 
(surprised)
  Mayday? What the hell is that for?

    
  It's the Russian New Year! We'll have a
  parade! They'll serve hot hors d'oeuvres!



Striker flips switch and rights plane.



Level flight.



 
  Two-zero-niner, are you okay up there?

   
  Yeah, I was just trying out the landing
  lights.

Elaine and Rumack exchange glances.



   
  I've got to get out of here! I can't stand
  it! I've got to get out of here!

Randy pushes up and shakes Mrs. Hammen by the shoulders.

   
  Calm down. Get hold of yourself!

 
  Stewardess, let me handle this.

Randy leaves, Jack shakes Mrs. Hammen by the shoulders.

 
  Get hold of yourself! Get hold of
  yourself!

    
(to Jack)
  Get back to your seat; I'll take care of
  this.

Jack leaves; Rumack shakes Mrs. Hammen by the shoulders.

    
  Calm down. Calm down. Get hold of
  yourself!

Sister Angelina taps Rumack on the shoulder.


(to Rumack)
   

Sister Angelina starts shaking Mrs. Hammen.


  Everything will be all right. Please get
  hold of yourself.

We see a line of passengers behind Sister Angelina waiting
to shake Mrs. Hammen.



reads:  CHICAGO INTERNATIONAL 
 OVER 16 BILLION PLANES LANDED



As Kramer rushes through the lobby, he is approached by a
series of religious zealots. In quick succession he decks
each one karate style, shooting the last zealot twenty feet
away with a .44 Magnum.



   
  Your attention, please. Flight four-one-
  seven now <u>departing</u> the B Concourse, gate
  six.

   
  Your attention, please. Flight twenty-
  seven now <u>arriving</u> the B Concourse, gate
  six.

There is a LOUD CRASH, and the 



   
(into phone)
  This guy doing the flying has no airline
  experience at all. He'll be a menace to
  himself and everything else in the air...
(he pauses to listen)
  ...Yes, birds too.

Kramer enters, picks up clipboard, and reads it.

 
(into phone)
  Okay, okay. He's a terrible risk, but what
  other choice have we got?

McCroskey hangs up phone.

 
  Well, that's the whole story, Rex,
  everything we know.

     
  All right, Steve, let's face a few facts.

Kramer whips off his sunglasses. Underneath is another pair
of sunglasses.

     
  As you know, I flew with this man,
  Striker, during the war. He'll have enough
  on his mind without remembering those days
  when -- well, when things weren't so good.

 
  Well, right now things aren't so good. And
  while we're talking there are a hundred
  and thirty-eight lives waiting on us for a
  decision.

     
  Let me tell you something, Steve. Striker
  was a top-notch squadron leader -- a long
  time ago...

A spear slams into the wall behind Kramer.

     
  ...but my feeling is that when the going
  gets rough upstairs tonight, Ted Striker's
  gonna fold up.

 
  Look, Rex -- I want you to get on the horn
  and talk this guy down! You're going to
  have to let him get the feel of this
  airplane on the way; you'll have to talk
  him onto the approach; and so help me,
  you'll have to talk him right down to the
  ground!

A watermelon falls from TOP OF FRAME, splattering on the
table.

     
  Very well then. Put Striker on the
  speaker.

 
  Okay, you can use the radio over there.
  Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit
  drinking.

He pulls a flask trom the drawer and takes a swig.



Kramer at dispatch radio. He picks up mike.

     
  Striker, Striker, this is Captain Rex
  Kramer speaking.

McCroskey joins Kramer at dispatch radio.



DRAMATIC MUSIC as we see Striker's ominous look of
recognition.

   
(dramatically)
  Yes, Captain Kramer. Read you loud and
  clear.



Kramer sits at the mike. An Air Controller is standing next
to him, but only his mid-section is in FRAME.

     
  All right. It's obvious you remember me.

The Air Controller is scratching his behind.

     
  So what do you say you and I just forget
  about everything except what we have to do
  now?

The Air Controller is now scratching his crotch.

     
  You and I are going to bring this plane in
  together.

The Air Controller's hand is now inside his pants
straightening out his underwear.

     
  Before we start, I'd like to say
  something. I know that right now things
  must look pretty rough up there.

The Air Controller is now hopping around with both hands
inside his pants.

     
  But if you do what I tell you, when I tell
  you to do it, there's no reason you can't
  bring that plane in.



   
  Let's not kid each other, Kramer. You know
  I've never flown a bucket like this. I'm
  going to need all the luck there is.



     
  Stand by, Striker.
(to McCroskey)
  The one hope we have is to build this man
  up. I've got to give him all the
  confidence I can.
(into microphone)
  All right, Striker, have you ever flown a
  multi-engine plane before?

   
  No. Never.

     
  Shit!



Striker over hears conversation on radio.

     
  This is a goddamn waste of time. There's
  no way he can land this plane! Route 'em
  into Lake Michigan and at least avoid
  killing innocent people!



 
  Grab hold of yourself! You've got to talk
  them down. You're the only chance they've
  got!

Kramer lights cigarette.

     
(into mike)
  All right, Striker, now you listen to me
  and you listen close. Flying is no
  different than riding a bicycle...it just
  happens to be a lot harder to put baseball
  cards in the spokes. Now, if you just
  follow my instructions...



Two vultures are sitting on back of Striker's seat.

     
  ...there's no reason why you shouldn't
  have complete confidence in your chances
  to come out of this thing alive and in one
  piece.



     
  First, I want you to familiarize yourself
  with the controls. Later we'll run through
  the landing procedure.

Kramer takes a last drag on his cigarette and tosses it out
the window. McCroskey plugs his ears with his fingers and
ducks as though Kramer had thrown a grenade. There is an
EXPLOSION O.S.

     
  All right. Now I'd like you to disengage
  the automatic pilot. But watch any violent
  movement of the controls, like you used to
  make in Spitfires and Phantoms.



   
(into microphone)
  Okay, I'm going to unlock the automatic
  pilot.

Striker switches off automatic pilot button. Automatic pilot
shoots upward out of the seat. Elaine is thrown to the
floor. Striker struggles desperately to control the plane.



flying erratically.



     
(matter of factly)
  Just remember, the controls will feel very
  heavy compared to a fighter.

Striker is fighting the wheel and the autopilot which is
drifting in his way. Finally, he throws the autopilot to the
rear of the cockpit.

     
   
  normal. You must watch your airspeed
  closely. Don't let it fall below 520. Both
  your rudder pedals and elevator trim will
  have additional play due to increased
  drag, but you can compensate by lowering
  manifold pressure below 154. Now there's
  one other thing. Have you someone up there
  who can work the radio and leave you free
  for flying?

   
  Yes! The stewardess is here with me!

Elaine rises. The autopilot is on her back, its hands
clinging to her breasts. She removes it and seats it at
engineer's console.

     
  Have her take the co-pilot's seat.

Elaine takes her seat as Striker regains control of the
plane. He hands Elaine the mike.

   
  The radio's all yours now. And keep an eye
  on that number three engine. It's running
  a little hot.

INSERT - NUMBER THREE ENGINE GAUGE

A LITTLE HOT is blinking.

BACK TO 

     
  Striker, what kind of weather are you in
  up there?

    
(into microphone)
  Rain.

   
  And a little ice.

    
  And a little ice!

     
  How's it handling?

   
  Sluggish. Like a wet sponge.

    
(into microphone)
  Sluggish. Like a wet sponge.

     
(patronizing)
  All right, Striker, you're doing just
  fine.

   
(to Elaine)
  It's a damn good thing he doesn't know how
  much I hate his guts.

    
(into microphone)
  It's a damn good thing you don't know how
  much he hates your guts.



A Black Dude is holding his stomach in pain.

 
  Oooooooh.

Randy approaches.

   
  Can I get something for you?

 
  Cain fo' gwine sho fi cun for.

   
  I'm sorry. I don't understand.

MRS. 
Dudes.

   
  Oh, stewardess, I can speak jive. He said
  he's in great pain and wants to know if
  you can help him.

   
  Tell him to relax and I'll be back as
  quickly as I can with some medicine.

Randy exits.

   
  Shi gwine man chitlun down for mo sho.

 
(indignantly)
  Shi man I ain neba mo fo gwine ain.

They engage in an argument in jive talk, with Mrs. Schiff
getting the best of it. She swaggers off in typical black
dude fashion.



Sister Angelina is singing to the Krishnas.


  '...I sit by the telephone for hours. I
  love when men send me flowers. I enjoy
  being a girl.'



Jack is comforting an ailing Shirley. She is per­spiring.

 
  How ya doing, honey?


  Oh Jack, I'm so warm. I'm burning up.

 
  Here.

He reaches up and opens the overhead air nozzle. Air rushes
out with hurricane force. As Jack struggles to turn off
nozzle, Shirley is blown about, an adjacent passenger's
papers go flying from a briefcase, a Hari Krishna's toga
flies up revealing polka dot boxer shorts. An extra's toupe
flies off.



SOFT MUSIC.

    
  After my wife died, I felt like a fifth
  wheel. You know, so many years being with
  one person -- a very wonderful person --
  makes you always think of yourself as part
  of a pair...When Ethel passed away, I was
  lost. I couldn't function socially and I
  couldn't function in business.

    
  Well, after a thing like that you wouldn't
  be expected to.

    
  But I think it's time we stopped talking
  about me. A woman like you -- why haven't
  you ever married?

    
  Well, I'm afraid that's a question that's
  all too easy to answer.

    
  I know the answer -- Career. A smart woman
  like you became so involved in your work,
  you didn't have time for marriage.

    
  I wish I could fool myself into believing
  that that's the reason. The truth of the
  matter is, nobody ever asked me.

    
  You know, here we are having coffee
  together, and discussing education and
  business and economy...and we don't even
  know each other's names...full names I
  mean.

    
  Mine's Eleanor. Eleanor Schiff.

    
  That's a lovely name. Mine's Milton...Milt
  Ettenhenim. But my friends call me
  'Bubbles.'



Randy approaches Mrs. Schiff.

   
  Would you care for a soft drink?

   
  I'd be glad to.

Randy hands a large bottle of Coca Cola wrapped in a baby
blanket to Ms. Schiff, who cradles it in her arms.

   
  Ooooh, such a nice soft drink.



CAMERA PULLS OUT to reveal Dispatcher typing message.

 
  National Weather Service reporting Omaha
  fogged in. Visibility zero.

The Dispatcher attempts to remove the message, but it is
stuck in the cartridge. He yanks on it, but the paper
stretches out like rubber. The scene now becomes like a
cartoon. He lodges his feet against the typewriter and pulls
until the paper stretches to his face. He grumbles in Donald
Duck voice. The typewriter snaps back and hits him.



 
(to Air Controller #2)
  Macias, get me Captain Oveur's wife on the
  phone. We'd better let her know what's going on. 

Air Controller #1 rushes in holding a piece of paper and
hands it to McCroskey.

   
  Steve, this weather bulletin just came off
  the wire.

McCroskey frowns and hands it to Hinshaw.

 
  Johnny, what can you make out of this?

    
  This? Why, I could make a hat or a
  broach...

McCroskey grabs the note from him.



MRS. OVEUR is in bed. Phone on night table RINGS. She
reaches for it sleepily.

   
  Hello?

   
  Missus Oveur?

   
  Yes, this is Missus Oveur.

   
  This is Ed Macias calling from the
  airport. There's some trouble on your
  husband's flight.

SHOT WIDENS to reveal she is sleeping with a horse.

   
  We don't know how serious it is yet, but
  Harry Ballard thought you'd want to get
  down here right away.

   
  I'll be right down.

She hangs up the phone and rises.

   
  I've got to go to the airport. You can let
  yourself out the back door. There's juice
  in the refrigerator.

   HORSE
(sounding like Mr. Ed)
   

   
  Oh, you're all so concerned about
  performance!



THUNDER and lightning; turbulent weather.



Randy approaches Mrs. Schiff, who is caring for a drink.

   
  Would you care for another drink?

   
  No, thank you, I'm still nursing this one.

She is bottle feeding the Coke bottle.

   
(to bottle)
  There, just a little bit more -- and then
  burpie time and a good nap!



Elaine hangs up phone.

    
   
  getting worse and we're running out of
  time.

Striker is perspiring.

   
(echoing)
  I've got to concentrate, concentrate,
  entrate, I've got to concentrate,
  oncentrate, oncentrate.

He becomes aware of ECHO.

   
(echoing)
  Hell, hello, ello, ello, ello, lo, lo.
  Echo, echo, echo, cho, cho, o, o, o, o, o.
  Pinch hitting for Pedro Bourbone, Manny
  Mota, Mota, Mota, Mota.



Nose dowm.

    
(hysterically)
  Ted, the altitude! We're falling, we're
  falling!

INSERT - GAUGE INDICATING DROPPING ALTITUDE



THUNDER and lightning. Flying nose down.



A Woman applying eye makeup, smears it over her face.



DRAMATIC MUSIC as Striker is struggling with the con­trols.
Windshield wipers are moving as though directing music. St.
Christopher statue is holding an umbrella. Striker regains
control of the plane.



 
(to Rumack)
  What's going on? We have a right to know
  the truth!

    
(to passengers)
  All right. I'm going to level with you.
  The most important thing now is that you
  should all be calm, because there's no
  reason to panic.

Rumack's nose elongates slightly.

    
  Now, it is true that one of the flight
  crew has been taken ill...slightly ill.

His nose is getting longer.

    
  But the other two pilots are just fine and
  at the controls flying the plane.

Rumack's nose is a foot long.

    
  The weather in Chicago is clear as a bell,
  and there's no reason that we won't land
  on schedule...

ANGLE

Passengers listening. His nose grows THROUGH FRAME.

    
  ...safe and sound and free to pursue a
  life of religious fulfillment.



   
(into microphone)
  Chicago, the passengers are beginning to
  panic. When do we start down?



     
(into microphone)
  Not just yet, we'll have you in radar
  range any second now.





     
(to McCroskey)
  I don't understand it. He should have been
  in range ten minutes ago.

 
(into microphone)
  Gunderson, check the radar range. Anything
  yet?



GUNDERSON opens door of Amana Radar Range and peers in.
There is a turkey inside.

   
(into microphone)
  About two more minutes, Chief.



 
  Two more minutes! They could be miles off
  course.

     
  That's impossible. They're on instruments!



Elaine, Randy, Rumack, and Striker are playing trumpet,
clarinet, saxophone and bass fiddle in Benny Goodman swing
band style.



     
  This is gonna be a real sweat.
(into mike)
  Gunderson, let me know when you get
  anything.

 
  I can't take much more of this! Johnny,
  how about some more coffee?

    
  Would you like half of my provolone and
  roast beef?

 
  Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit
  amphetamines.

He pops a couple pills. Fifteen REPORTERS, Cameramen, etc.
enter with Air Controller #l.

   
(to McCroskey)
  Steve, these reporters won't leave without
  a statement.

 
  How much longer can the sick passengers
  hold out?

 
  Half hour...maybe forty-five minutes.

 
  Who's flying the plane?

Air Controller #2 enters and hands McCroskey a note. Hands
holding microphones are thrust INTO FRAME in front of
McCroskey. One hand is holding an ice cream cone.

 
  One of the passengers. But he's an
  experienced air force pilot who flew
  during the war so there's no cause for
  alarm. Hinshaw, take over.

McCroskey exits.

 
  Have the families been notified?

    
  I think Florence Henderson knows about it!

 
  What are the chances of bringing this
  plane in safely?

    
  What are the chances of returning
  something to Montgomery Ward the week
  after Christmas?

 
(beckoning to door)
  All right, boys. Let's get some pictures.

Three men with cameras enter and begin to remove framed
pictures from walls.

NEWSPAPERS

coming off press. SUPERIMPOSE:

CLASSIC MONTAGE OF:

Series of spinning newspapers. CAMERA ZOOMS IN to each as it
stops spinning so that we can read headlines. Headlines are:

 "CHICAGO TIMES"

   "DISASTER LOOMS FOR 

"NEW YORK TRIBUNE"

     "CHICAGO PREPARES FOR CRASH LANDING"

      "NATIONAL INQUIRER"

 "BOY TRAPPED IN REFRIGERATOR EATS OWN FOOT"

CAMERA ZOOMS in to:

SPINNING TELEVISION SET

   NEW
  Striken Airliner Approaches Chicago!

 

ARAB NEWS SET

Arab newcast.

 

JAPANESE NEWS SET

Japanese newscast.

 

AFRICAN TV NEW

NEW
nose. There is a graphic of an airplane behind him and he is
beating on a hollow log with sticks. The CAMERA ANGLE
CHANGES and he switches to look into NEW CAMERA, and
continues beating.

 

CBS' SIXTY MINUTES "POINT-COUNTERPOINT" SET

  KILPATRICK
  Shana, they bought their tickets, they
  knew what they were getting into. I say,
  let 'em crash!

 







Lightning and THUNDER.



    
  Will the hospital equipment be at the
  airport?

   
  Yes, everything they've got. How are the
  passengers doing?

    
  I won't deceive you, Mister Striker. We're
  running out of time.

   
  Surely there must be something you can do.

    
  I'm doing everything I can! -- And stop
  calling me Shirley!

Rumack leaves.

   
  I've got to stay calm. If I can just keep
  my wits about me, I can't mess this one
  up.

    
  Maybe I have been too harsh with him. If I
  had given him more support in the
  beginning, maybe things would be
  different.

   
  Forget it. It's not your fault.

    
  That's sweet of you, Ted. I appreciate the
  thought.

We hear both of their thoughts simultaneously.

   
      THOUGHTS (v.o.)    THOUGHTS (v.o.)
You know, Elaine, I just  It's just that I feel so
wanted to tell you...     helpless and...

   
  Go ahead.

    
  No, no. You were first.



Jack is seated across the aisle from Mrs. Hammen. He falls
asleep and slumps over.

   
(hysterically)
  He's dead. He's dead!

Jack wakes up. Disgustedly:

 
  No, I'm not dead.



Mrs. Schiff is holding the bottle to her shoulder and
patting it. It BURPS.



Sister Angelina is singing to the two black dudes.


  'What you want,
  Baby I got,
  What you need,
  You know I got it.
  All I'm askin' for
  Is a little respect
  When you come home.'



Rumack pours a cup of water. Randy begins to weep.

    
  Randy, are you all right?

   
   
  so scared. And besides, I'm twenty-six and
  I'm not married.

    
  Randy, we're going to make it. You've got
  to believe that.

Mrs. Hammen enters alcove.

   
  Lorison, do you have any idea when we'll
  be landing?

    
  It will be pretty soon. How are you
  bearing up?

   
  Well, to be honest, I'm very scared. But
  at least I've got a husband.



Revolving radar antenna.



of typewriter. CAMERA PULLS OUT to REVEAL Dispatcher typing
message.

 
  National Weather Service reporting Chicago
  ceiling zero, visibility one hundred feet.

With great care the Dispatcher turns the knob on carriage
until the paper comes out clean. Relishing his victory, he
talks in Donald Duck voice.

    
  Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy.

As he starts toward the door, the room caves in on him.



McCroskey and Kramer are at watercooler. McCroskey is
filling cup while Kramer drinks.

 
  Rex, I've decided that the best thing to
  do is to foam the runway -- let him do a
  wheels-up landing. It'd be a lot simpler.

Kramer throws cup into wastebasket. McCroskey drinks.

     
(filling up another cup)
  No, the risk of fire is too great. If she
  starts burning, you write off all those
  people who can't get out of there on their
  own power.

McCroskey throws cup into wastebasket. Kramer drinks.

 
(filling up another cup)
  Well that's better than writing them all
  off? Are you going to play God with a
  hundred and 38 lives?

Kramer throws cup into wastebasket as McCroskey drinks.

     
(filling up another cup)
  No. A belly landing isn't all that simple.
  It takes a good pilot to keep from
  smearin' himself all over the runway.

McCroskey throws cup into wastebasket as Kramer drinks.

 
(filling up another cup)
  If Striker has the guts to try this, he
  deserves the best shot we can give him.
  We've gotta foam that runway.

Kramer throws cup into wastebasket as McCroskey drinks.

     
(taking another cup)
  His only shot's with the wheels down. I've
  seen foam tear a man's guts out.

McCroskey throws cup into wastebasket. Kramer throws cup
into wastebasket.

 
  And if Striker goes to pieces?

     
(taking another cup)
  That's a risk we'll just have to take.

Kramer throws cup into wastebasket. McCroskey throws cup
into wastebasket. They burp.



Striker is looking at controls. Lightning is flashing on his
face.

INSERT - ALTIMETER

SUPERIMPOSE fighter plane. Then STOCK FOOTAGE of early
experimental planes crashing.

 
  Stay in formation. Targets just ahead.
  Target should be clear it you go in low
  enough. You'll have to decide.
(echoing)
  You'll have to decide. You'll have to
  decide...So, decide already.



Sudden dramatic MUSIC. The cockpit shakes. Engine number
three is flaming out.

INSERT - CONTROL PANEL - GAUGE FOR ENGINE #3

BACK TO 

   
  Rats! I've lost number three.

    
  What happened, Ted? What went wrong?

   
  Oil pressure. I forgot to check the oil
  pressure. When Kramer hears about this,
  the shit's gonna hit the fan.



The shit hits it. PULL BACK to include:

     
  I told him to watch that oil temperature.
  What the hell's he doing up there?

He picks up the mike.

     
  Striker, that plane can't land itself! It
  takes a pilot who can handle pressure.

 
  Ease up, Rex! He hasn't flown for years!
  It's not his fault. It could happen to any
  pilot.

    
  It happened to Barbara Stanwyck!



   
  He's right. I can't take the pressure. I
  was crazy to think I could land this
  plane.

    
  But Ted, you're the only...

   
  I don't care. I just don't have what it
  takes. They'd be better off with someone
  who'd never flown before.

As Striker leaves he puts autopilot into pilot's seat.
Elaine is on the verge of tears.

DRAMATIC MUSIC.



Air Controller #2 enters.

   
  Bad news. The fog's getting thicker.

    
  And Liz Taylor is getting larger!

 
  Ya know, this would be a tough landing for
  anyone to make. Maybe, if we hold them off
  for a bit we'll get a break in the
  weather.

     
  All right, but let's wait until they reach
  the control area.



THUNDER and lightning.



Outside stewardess' alcove. Striker fills a cup from
drinking fountain then pours it on his head. He sits down
dejectedly on stewardess' fold-out seat. Rumack approaches.

   
  I know what you're going to say, so save
  your breath.

Rumack sits.

    
  No. I haven't a thing to say. You've done
  the best you could. You really have. The
  best you could. I guess we can't expect to
  win 'em all. I want to tell you something
  I've kept to myself for years. I was in
  the war myself -- the Medical Corps. I was
  on duty late one night when a badly
  wounded pilot was brought in from a raid.
  He could barely talk, but he looked at me
  and he said, "Doc. The odds were against
  us up there but we went in anyway, and I'm
  glad we did. The captain made the right
  decision." The pilot's name was George
  Zipp.

Striker looks up. Notre Dame Fight Song is heard in b.g.

   
  George Zipp said that?

    
  And the last thing he said to me, "Doc,"
  he said, "Sometime when the crew is up
  against it and the breaks are beating the
  boys, tell them to go out there with all
  they've got and win just one for the
  Zipper. I don't know where I'll be then,
   
  good. That's for sure."

   
(rejuvinated)
  Excuse me, Doc, I've got a plane to land.

Striker boldly starts toward cockpit.



Striker enters. Elaine, unaware of his return, is listening
to Kramer on the radio.

     
  All right, you'd better stay up there for
  a bit. As soon as the fog lifts, we'll
  bring you in.

   
  I'll take it, Elaine.

She turns to face him. A dramatic moment. Striker enters
pilot seat and takes mike from Elaine's hand.

   
  Listen to me, Kramer. Doctor Rumack says
  the sick people are in critical condition
  and every minute counts. We've got to land
  now!

     
   
  landing like this means. You more than
  anybody. I'm ordering you to stay up
  there!

   
  No dice, Chicago. <u>I'm</u> giving the orders,
  and we're coming in...I guess the foot's
  on the other hand now, isn't it, Kramer?



 
  He'll never bring it down in this soup.
  Never! Not one chance in a million.

     
  I know. I know. But it's his ship now, his
  command; he's in charge, he's the boss,
  the head man, the top dog, the big cheese,
  the head honcho...

Air Controller #2 rushes up to McCroskey and Kramer,
carrying a newspaper.

   
  Chief, look at this!

Kramer grabs newspaper.

     
(reading)
  'Passengers Certain to Die?!?!?!?!?!'

 
  'Airline Negligent?!?!?!?!?!'

He hands the paper to Hinshaw.

    
(looking at newspaper)
  There's a sale at Penny's!

McCroskey grabs paper from Hinshaw.

     
(to men in Dispatch)
  All right, I'll need three men up in the
  tower.
(pointing)
  You, Neubauer. You, Macias.

    
  Me John. Big tree.

He puts his ear to the ground.

    
  Wagon train comes three, maybe four day
  away.

     
(into microphone)
  Stand by, Striker. I'm going to the tower.
  And good luck.

Kramer exits.

 
(into phone)
  We're going to the tower.

McCroskey exits.

    
(excitedly)
  The tower! Oh! Rapunzel! Rapunzel!



THUNDER and lightning.



Randy is talking to passengers and demonstrating.

   
  In a moment we'll ask you to assume crash
  positions. Your life jackets are located
  under your seat.



Jack and Shirley are watching.

   
  Remove the jacket and unfold it so that
  the red arrow points up.



The Krishnas are watching.

   
  Place the jacket over your head, and when
  I give the word pull the cord under the
  left side flap.

BACK TO RANDY

She pulls the cord and it inflates into a child's duck-
shaped inner tube.



Hinshaw, Kramer, and McCroskey enter. Three Controllers are
there. One is wearing a black striped shirt.

    
  We're all ready, sir.

As he makes introductions, they shake hands.

    
  Captain McCroskey, this is Captain
  Roberts. Captain Kramer, this is Captain
  Colosimo. Captain Hinshaw, Captain Gatz.
  Captain Kramer, Captain Gatz. Captain
  Hinshaw, Captain Roberts.

     
  All right. Colosimo, you'll work the
  relay. Roberts, double check all air
  traffic within five miles.

Roberts is scratching his ear.

     
  And get that finger out of your ear. You
  don't know where that finger's been!
  Gunderson?

   
  Yes, Captain?

     
   

   
  Runway niner. It's the longest, and
  directly into the wind.

    
  And the foliage looks so pretty this time
  of year.

Gunderson exits.

     
(into mike)
  Striker, you're going to have to work
  fast. After this message, do not
  acknowledge any transmission unless you
  want to ask a question. Do you understand?
  Striker, Striker, do you read me?



Mrs. Oveur enters.

   
  Steve!

 
  Linda, your husband and the others are
  alive but unconscious.

    
  Just like Gerald Ford!

 
  Now there's a chance we can save them if
  Striker can get this plane down on time.

   
  That isn't much of a chance, is it?

    
(appalled)
  Where did you get that dress? It's an eye-
  sore!



Gunderson and an assistant are seated in front of radar
screens. One of them is a video anti-aircraft game.

   
(into microphone)
  Eight miles. Turn right to heading zero
  eight niner.



     
(into microphone)
  You are now eight miles from the airport.
  Turn right to a heading of zero eight
  niner, throttle back slightly and begin to
  lose altitude to fifteen hundred feet.

    
  We're now at twelve hundred feet, leveling
  off.

     
(to McCroskey)
  Steve, I want every light you can get
  poured on that field.

 
  It's being done right now.



A truck is dumping a variety of lamps, fixtures, and light
bulbs onto the runway.



     
(into mike)
  Tower to all emergency vehicles. Runway is
  niner.



Ambulances, fire trucks, and police cars start to move.

      
(over 
  Airport vehicles take positions one and
  two.



     
(into microphone)
  Civilian equipment, number three.



Ambulances, firetrucks, and police cars speed toward runway.
They are followed by a baggage truck, fuel truck, a taxi,
Coke truck, an ice cream truck, farm machinery, and a cement
mixer.

     
(over 
  Air Force positions number four and five.
  All ambulances to position three.



    
(into mike)
  It's a twister! It's a twister! Toto!...
  Auntie Em!



THUNDER and lightning.



     
  All right, Striker, put down twenty
  degrees of flap. When your flaps are down,
  retrim for level flight.



Passengers are wearing headsets and watching in-flight
movie. Randy approaches Mrs. Schiff.

   
  Stewardess, how soon 'til we land?

   
  It won't be long now. Try not to worry.

Mrs. Schiff puts on a headset and watches movie. The movie
is airplanes crashing and burning.



flying erratically.

INSERT - ALTIMETER

fluctuating.



A woman, applying facial makeup, smears it all over her
face.



   
  He's all over the place! Nine hundred feet
  up to thirteen hundred feet! What an
  asshole!



     
  Watch your altitude, Striker. It's too
  erratic. You can't come straight in.
  You've got enough fuel left for two hours
  flying. You've got to stay up there 'til
  we get a break in the weather.



Striker reaches for microphone.

   
  I'll take it, Elaine.
(into mike)
  Listen, Kramer, I'm coming in. Do you hear
  me? I'm coming in right now! We have
  people up here who will die in less than
  an hour, never mind two. I may bend your
  precious airplane, but I'll get it down!
  Now get on with the landing check. I'm
  putting the gear down now.

As he activates landing gear, Randy enters.

   
  Mr. Striker, the passengers are ready.

   
  Thank you, Randy. You better leave
  sweetheart. You might get hurt in here.

Randy leaves. There is a CRASH and Randy screams.

    
  Ted...

   
  Yes?

    
  I wanted you to know -- now -- I'm very
  proud.

   
  Tell them the gear is down and we're ready
  to land.

    
(into mike)
  The gear is down.



    
  And we're ready to land.

 
  He may not be able to fly, but he's sure
  got guts.

Kramer nods.



in Striker's cab cheeks his watch.

    
  Well, I'll give him another twenty
  minutes, but that's it.

INSERT - METER

reads $389.10.



Fog, THUNDER, and lightning.



    
  I'm sure we'll both make it...but just in
  case one of us...well, is there a message
  you'd like me to give someone?

    
  No. I'm all alone.

    
  Just in case I don't have a chance to say
  goodbye, I want you to know that I haven't
  spent so many pleasant hours for many
  years.

    
  That's a very nice compliment, and I'd
  like to say that...you've done the same
  for me.



Dr. Rumack pokes his head in the door.

    
  I just wanted to tell you both good luck.
  We're all counting on you.



     
  Now, Striker...hold your present heading,
  put down full flap, bring your air speed
  back to a hundred and thirty-five, then I
  want you to take hold of the throttle...

    
  And stick it in your ear.

     
  And stick it in your ear.

McCroskey gives Hinshaw a disapproving look.

    
(a la Frogsy, the Gremlin)
  I'll be good, I will, I will.



   
  Captain, he's dropping off fast. Almost
  seven hundred.



     
  Striker, get back to a thousand feet!



Assistant Radar Operator unloads clothes from radar screen/
wash machine door and puts them into basket.

   
  He's below seven hundred now and he's
  still going down! 675! 650! 625! 600!



It knocks the radio tower off a building and heads past the
John Hancock Building.



     
  Striker, you're coming in too low! What's
  your altitude?

   
  I don't know. How high was the eighty-
  ninth floor of the John Hancock Building?



   
  He's right on the heading.



     
  All right, he's on final now! Put out all
  runway lights except niner.



Ambulance attendants, firemen, and emergency vehicles are in
readiness.



     
  Turn on your landing lights, Striker. It's
  the switch above your right knee.



Striker reaches for button above his left knee.

     
  No. I said your right knee.

Striker pushes button over his right knee.



Landing lights come on.



McCroskey, Kramer, and Mrs. Oveur are nervously watching the
sky.

     
  All right, now just listen carefully. You
  should be able to see the runway at three
  hundred feet.

Mrs. Oveur clutches Kramer's arm anxiously.

     
  Aim to touchdown a third of the way along.
  There's a slight crosswind from the right,
  so be ready for it.

Mrs. Oveur is clutching Kramer's arm with both hands.

     
  If you land too fast, use your emergency
  brakes. The red handle is right in front
  of you.

Now Mrs. Oveur, still watching the sky, has both arms around
Kramer's waist, massaging his chest with her hands.

     
  If that doesn't stop you...

Kramer is suddenly aware of what Mrs. Oveur is doing. He
gives her a look and she removes her hands.

     
  If that doesn't stop you, cut the four
  ignition switches over the co-pilot's
  head.



Striker looks for switches.

INSERT - IGNITION SWITCHES



   
  See them, Elaine?

    
  Uh-huh.



     
   
  see the field now.



Striker and Elaine are searching for airfield.



Kramer and McCroskey are tensely trying to spot plane. Mrs.
Oveur is watching, prayerfully.



Searchlights scan field.



Revolving beacon searches.



 
  It sure is quiet out there.

     
  Yeah -- too quiet.

 
  Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit
  sniffing glue.

He pulls a tube of airplane glue from his shirt pocket and
sniffs.



Striker and Elaine are searching for airfield.



Kramer and Mrs. Oveur are anxiously watching the sky.
McCroskey is glazed.

     
(excited)
  There he is!
(into microphone)
  Striker, you're coming in too fast!

   
  I know! I know!

    
(into microphone)
  He knows! He knows!

 
  Wow!





     
(into microphone)
  Sound your alarm bell now.



Elaine rings alarm bell.



Alarm BELL RINGS. Randy is standing in center aisle.

   
  All right, now, everybody get in crash
  positions.

Passengers assume various awkward poses as though plane had
just crashed.



Ambulance attendants anxiously watch sky.



Striker sees airport and points it out to Elaine.

INSERT - 

Speed is increasing.



    
  Airspeed one twenty-five, one thirty...

She raises her head to look out cockpit window.



The runway lights go out.



Striker and Elaine look at each other, panicked.



Hinshaw has just pulled a plug from an electrical outlet.

    
  Just kidding!



Runway lights go back on.



Striker and Elaine are relieved.

    
  ...one thirty-five, one forty.



     
  Striker, now listen to me. You're coming
  down too fast!



Striker is struggling with steering wheel and sweating.

     
  Put down thirty degrees of flap!

Striker is sweating profusely as he struggles in vain with
the flap switch.

   
  It's stuck. It won't move!

He bangs the control panel and "TILT" light up.



McCroskey is staring at radio equipment.

     
  Bring it down! Easy!

 
  Look at all those buttons! Oh that's
  beautiful! Just beautiful!





     
  Watch your nose! It's too low!

Striker is struggling with wheel. The wheel begins to fight
back, pushing Striker.

     
  You're coming in too hot!



     
  Remember your brakes and switches! Get
  ready to flare it out! You're coming in
  too fast! Watch your speed!

 
(hysterical)
  He's coming right at us!

McCroskey turns and leaps through tower window. All activity
momentarily stops. Everyone looks back at window. Then
activity resumes.

     
  You're coming in too hot! Put down full
  flaps! Watch your nose!



Runway swerving underneath him.



     
  Now ease her down! Down!



Plane is a few feet from ground.



     
  Lift the nose! Throttle back!



Closer to ground.



Striker pushes wheel forward as tires 



     
  The brake! Pull the red handle!



Striker pulls red handle. It comes off in his hand. He
pushes brake with feet.







Dr. Rumack pokes his head in the door.

    
  I just wanted to tell you both good luck.
  We're all counting on you.



Runway passing underneath.



     
(into microphone)
  Hold her steady, hold her steady!



skidding.



   
  You attention, please. Trans American
  Flight 209 non-stop from Los Angeles is
  now arriving at Gate seven...Gate eight...

People in Gate seven waiting area move to Gate eight.



is struggling with controls, sweating profusely.



     
  Pull a lever!



skidding.



is struggling with controls. Water is gushing down his face
ridiculously.



   
  ...209 arriving gate thirteen...gate
  fourteen....gate fifteen...

People in Gate thirteen move to Gate fourteen.



skidding.



     
  Push a button!



Striker is struggling with controls.



     
(into microphone)
  You're too low! You're too low!



   
  ...gate twenty-three...twenty four...
  twenty-five...

People are running THROUGH FRAME right to left.



Ground crewman with red flashlights nonchalantly directs
plane. Suddenly he realizes the plane is not stopping. He
throws his flashlight at the plane and runs off, terrified.



skidding.



Randy approaches a passenger in crash position.

   
  Can we help arrange hotel accommodations
  or a rent-a-car during your stay in
  Chicago?



Landing gear snaps off; plane starts to slide on its belly.

PLANE

is heading toward a building. On the side of the building is
a billboard with a man drinking milk.



Elaine screams and covers her face. St. Christopher statue
covers its face.



is getting closer to building. Billboard man is looking at
plane, terrified.



is screaming.



is skidding.



    
(seated in wheelchair)
  Wheel me to the West Wing. I wish to view
  the Degas.



skids to a stop.



Kramer sighs in relief as controllers and Mrs. Oveur dash
from room.



Controllers celebrate safe landing, reporters rush from
room.



Five reporters run into bank of phone booths and the booths
topple over.







Passengers rise slowly, shaken but uninjured. Milton and
Bernice look at each other, relieved, and embrace. Mrs.
Schiff gets up to leave.



Rumack pokes his head in door.

    
  I just wanted to tell you both good luck.
  We're all counting on you.

Striker and Elaine get up to leave cockpit.

     
  Striker, Striker, are you all right?

   
(into microphone)
  Yeah, we're okay.



     
  Ted, that was probably the lousiest
  landing in the history of this airport.
  But there are some of us here...



     
  ...particularly me, who'd like to buy you
  a drink and shake your hand.

Striker and Elaine leave.

     
  ...and, Ted, I just want you to know, that
  when the going got tough up there, when
  the chips were down...



Randy is assisting Jack and Shirley, the Hammens, and the
nun from the plane.

   
  Hurry now. Please be careful.



Air controllers leave as Kramer continues.

     
  ...Lonliness, that's the bottom line. I
  was never happy as a child. Christmas,
  Ted, what does it mean to you? For me, it
  was a living hell. Do you know what it's
  like to fall in the mud and get kicked? In
  the head? By an iron boot? Of course you
  don't. No one does. That never happens.
  Sorry, Ted. Dumb question. Strike that.



Randy is assisting Hari Krishnas and Black Dudes from plane.



McCroskey, dressed in wet suit and flippers and oxygen tank
is moving as though swimming under water.

 
  I didn't know that the electric eel was
  approaching so rapidly nor that hidden in
  the coral reef was a family of poisonous
  sea urchins.



Lisa Davis and her mother enter ambulance. It pulls from
FRAME. We HEAR a loud screech and crash.



Kramer is still droning on.

     
(into mike)
  ...and they shall be for frontlets between
  thine eyes, Ted. Neither they man servant,
  nor they maid servant, nor thine ox, nor
  thine ass.



ROMANTIC MUSIC.

Striker and Elaine are alone on the runway. Behind them is
flight 209. They embrace and kiss as CAMERA ARCS around.
MUSIC SWELLS. Suddenly the ENGINES REV UP. Astonished, they
look up to the cockpit.



Automatic pilot is at controls. He salutes Striker and
Elaine and winks at CAMERA.



The plane begins to taxi on its belly, shooting off sparks
and making a tremendous scraping SOUND. Arm in arm, Striker
and Elaine wave good-bye as the plane takes off into the
night sky.

   FADE OUT.



     <u>THE END</u>










</html>
